---
title: Five reasons why I live Free and Open Source Software
author: Just van den Broecke
type: post
date: -001-11-30T00:00:00+00:00
draft: true
url: /?p=370
categories:
  - osgeo

---
Being an independent developer I make a living from (Geospatial) Free and Open Source Software (FOSS). Penny wise this poses no problems: my income from regular contracts is more than sufficient to support my family, including even a cabin in the woods. About half of my available working hours I happily contribute, unpaid, to several FOSS projects and am trying to grow the Dutch OSGeo.nl community. But it is often hard to explain, when asked by friends and family: what is it that I do? My answer depends on my mood of the day, but is mostly unsatisfactory, more than often leaving the questioner with a puzzled glare. In this booming market: is he/ am I suffering from pound foolishness? The hard question is also: why? As I am also of a certain age, the hidden and unasked question is: why are you not a senior manager, or better: a director of an enterprise that sells software by the pound? 

I know this is a common question and I&#8217;ve seen some brilliant answers. Unfortunately many don&#8217;t have the patience to watch the full Paul Ramsey video. Also, pondering about this daily I don&#8217;t think there is, at least I don&#8217;t have, a single answer. So as a software developer and a nerd I have been trying to decompose my answer into six categories. In short, for TL;DR:

1. technological &#8211; progress by standing on the shoulders of giants who shared  
2. economical &#8211; FOSS experts are in demand  
3. social &#8211; meeting nice people  
4. organizational &#8211; less management overhead  
5. ecological &#8211; develop on demand, only what is necessary  
6. ideological &#8211; sharing and giving is good, saving the planet