---
title: draft java rant stuff
author: Just van den Broecke
type: post
date: -001-11-30T00:00:00+00:00
draft: true
url: /?p=662
categories:
  - osgeo

---
am fed up with Java. Hear me well: at that time I was fed up with C++, and well, grandpa goes on, fed up with C well before that. I could go back to assembly language but more positively: it is a matter of evolution and always: how fast can one go from an idea/specification to a working (and maintainable!) product. Back in the days Java provided that ease coming from C++. The WORA, Write Once Run Anywhere, had its appeal. Performance and resource consumption, ahem, was just a matter of time. Just-in-time-compilation! The whole world, full-stack, would become Java. We and Sun would beat Microsoft and Change the World. But the world itself changed, even Microsoft made a better Java with C#, Google with Android,, Sun was acquired by Oracle and no one wants to be caught writing a Java-Applet or a Java-Start or FX app. Java remained a very effective platform for the server/backend with an amazingly growing number of frameworks (who uses EJBs?). Still, like other languages as PHP, Perl and yes, Python, there was no single/central repository (jars.com?), no global independent development community. Yes, Maven, but with its inherent complexity. Still, following the Java-imposed development style together with continuous integration and test-first approach, very stable products are still being produced. In the Open Source geospatial world: GeoServer, GeoNetwork and more are very stable and well-maintained products that I can recommend. But sorry, I am not done yet.

Being more and more involved in deployment and even (Linux) system administration for Open Source geo-stacks, provides me a perspective from the side of system and application maintenance. Here, down under, not just functionality counts, but mainly: ease of (re)deployment,  configuration, resource consumption, uptime, single points of failure and the like. Within this underworld Java-based (server) apps make a bleak appearance. For example, the often used Java-Tomcat setup is pure hell. It is a bad idea directly exposing Tomcat apps to the internet, so we place an HTTP-server like Apache or NGinx in front. This renders more complexity: mod_ajp, proxies, domain names in GetCapabilities responses need to comply with our domain name. Running multiple webapps, .war&#8217;s, what&#8217;s in a name, within a single Tomcat instance provides a single point of failure already: any misbehaving Java webapp can tear down Tomcat and with it all others.